<h1>The Carleton Computer Science Society</h1>

Or CCSS for short, is the student run, student organized, student led, student
staffed society for all undergrad level Computer Science students. If you're
reading this guide then it's a good be you're a member!

## What We Do

It's a pretty big list if you go into specifics, but I'll try and cover all the
bases.

  - Provide a lounge area for study and socialization with other CCSS members
  - Maintain an office where we offer services to our members
    - A coffee machine, printing services, and game systems being some of them
  - Host a variety of events that we try to cater to Comp. Sci. students
    - Coffee Socials
    - Movie nights
    - Bowling and board game adventures
    - Tech and research talks
    - And way more
  - We host workshops to improve your CS related skills
    - Sometimes you even get bonus points in your classes for attending
  - Get you sweet invites to sweet conferences
  - Host a suite of tech services on our servers, with the list ever growing
  - Represent your academic desires to the Carleton Academic Student Government

In addition to all those things, the CCSS works every year on improving what we
offer and to make new and exciting services available! If you've got something
you want to see then make sure you let us know. We can't help if we don't know
what you want!

## What You Do

Other than plausibly exist, as a member of the CCSS, there are tons of things
you can do besides plausibly exist to make your life at Carleton exciting and
exceptional. Because the CCSS is a student run society, we need marvelous and
motivated people like you to keep doing cool things for everyone. Got a good
idea between you and your friends? Come let us know, we'll help you do it. Got
an improvement you want to see in the curriculum? Come let us know. Got a
\_\_\_\_\_\_? **Seriously come let us know.**

The only thing you need to do to get the most out of the CCSS and university
life in general comes down to two things.

1. Be vocal about what you want to see the university experience be.

2. Pitch in and help out when we say *HELL FCKN YES* to your plan.

When it comes down to it, the CCSS exists to help **you** get you what you want
out of this 4 years of your life. That makes it your job to come tell us how we
can help you help you!

## Where Are We?

Oh great, you're all excited to tell us what you want? Then ready your
adventuring legs because this one is a doozy! We're on the **4th** floor of a
building.

It's a perilous mission should you choose to undertake it, but the treasure is
sweet. If you dare to brave such horrors as staircases, doorways, hallways, and
many other unnameable ways, find a map and set your destination as ***4135
Herzberg Laboratories (4135 HP).***

Should such a mission seem much too perilous then you can always email the
relevant Director or Officer of the CCSS for your query and/or suggestion.
Check out our [Contact Page](../../contact/index.md) for info and emails.
