<h1>Welcome To Your New Home</h1>

It's the strangest out of all 7 cities and towns I've parked myself, but not in
a bad way. Hopefully, I can get you oriented in discovering its intricacies for
yourself. So on to the meat, the main things that make Ottawa stand out.

## It's **Big**

2778 square kilometers, according to Google. About half the entire GTA area and
with less than 1/6th of the population it's sure to make you wonder what the
hell we need all this space for. I don't have an answer to that. What I do have
an answer for is what it means now that you're living here! So here we go, the
big effects of a really short 'n fat city:

Transit usually takes a while. It's still a good idea (because it's essentially
free with your tuition) but plan on being on that bus for a bit. 30 minutes is
pretty much as good as it gets.

There's a <strike>shit</strike>load of green spaces! This is actually one of the good parts.
Because Ottawa takes up so much space and because some of the chunks are
arbitrarily far from each other, Ottawa has many intentional and unintentional
green spaces! Just check out the park across the river from campus for a peek
at what I mean. If you need a place to relax on some grass it doesn't really
matter where you live in Ottawa, you're only a 10 minute walk away.

Sometimes people from not Ottawa get tricked into thinking we have a large
population and then cool things happen here. Examples: International fireworks
competition; Kanye, Snoop Dogg, Deep Purple, Zeds Dead, and a whole other slew
of famous acts that fell into the trap; FIFA Women's World Cup. It keeps
happening! Stay tuned during your 4(ish) years here to go to neat unexpected
things.

## The Quirks

This is a government city, obviously. The NCC does it's best to make sure
everything fun is fit for 'high society'. The whole vibe of this place is all
over and totally bizarre. If you are, however, excited by the bizarre then
we've got lots of interesting things for you! You just need to keep your ears
to the ground and ignore metaphorical *no fun allowed* signs. There is actually
a decent night life even if you know where to look.

**Shawarma**. If you're not from Toronto or Montreal you're probably wondering
what the hell that word means. It's food. Delicious garlic-y mostly healthy
fast food. It's your new best friend I promise. Especially when you finish up
at the bar at 2:30am or you take a break from late night hacking. They're
everywhere in Ottawa and it's amazing. Treat yourself!

Everything stops at 3am (or there-abouts). Or alternately, depending on where
you're from, everything goes until 3am (or there-abouts). It's not an all-hours
city, it just tries to pretend.

Food festivals. We have sooooooooooooooooooooooooo many food festivals. Between
Sparks Street and the people running them on the City Hall lawn you will never
feel a crippling need for poutine, ribs, chili, shawarma (I think that one's
new), and a whole slew of other new foods to celebrate. Beyond that, we've got
all sorts of marvelous restaurants of so many varieties. Abandon pub food for
cuisine more adventurous!

## Transit

They're doing major redevelopments. This city is always under construction. It
will take a while and the buses are frequently late, but it's (basically) free
for you and it will get you where you need to be.

My tips for using OC Transpo (and I've been using it for a decade) are:

- Bring music/headphones/something to entertain you
- Aim to arrive early (because you won't a lot of the time)
- Get your directions with Google Maps (the little bus/train icon beside the
  car). They're better than the OC Transpo app ones.
- Only bus during rush hour if you're fine with 0 personal space.

Oh, and before you go get wild downtown (and you will), make sure you check
your last bus times! There's always an Uber or a cab that aren't too expensive
but your UPass is totally free!

The last bus that leaves Carleton to go Downtown is usually the **7** at about
**12:30** at night.

The last bus that gets you back to Carleton from downtown is generally the
**1** at around **2:00am** but there's a 15 minute walk back to campus from the
stop.

Happy busing!

* * *

*Author: Sam Whiteley, 4th year, Security Stream*
