<h1>What is an Audit?</h1>

Your academic audit is one of the most useful tools you have at Carleton
University for academic planning and will tell you everything you need to
know in order to graduate.  Unfortunately, the audit is not very clear or
intuitive and it takes a lot of practice to learn how to read it.  It’s
worth taking the time to learn how to read the audit.

The Student Academic Success Centre provides a comprehensive guide to
[reading your audit](http://carleton.ca/sasc/advisingcentre/audit/reading-your-audit/)

<h2>Why become a master of the audit?</h2>

Understanding the intricacies of the audit will make you a wizard.  Okay,
maybe not, but it will help you pick your courses faster and be confident
that you are on track to graduate.  You can also be known as “that person
who knows what courses we need to take” and show off your mad auditing
skills.


<h2>How to become a master of the audit</h2>

To learn how to read your audit, check out the resources provided by the
SASC. As you will learn during your years as a student of computer science,
don’t rewrite code if there is already a library for it.  This applies to
orientation guides as well.

If you are interested in changing something about your degree, like adding
a stream or changing your minor, run a “What If?” audit.  It runs your audit
as though you were in that program, so you can find out what courses will be
affected by changing your program, and what new courses you will require.

A true master of the audit understands how to use hypothetical courses. If
hypothetically you took this course and achieved this hypothetical grade,
this is how your progress and your CGPA would be affected.  Hypothetical
courses are great for figuring out what degree requirements a course
fulfills; for example, taking COMP 3804 will fill my major requirements and
my minor in Mathematics.  A hypothetical course will let you know whether
that cool elective you are interested in taking is a free elective or an
Approved Arts elective.

One course can fulfill more than one requirement for your degree.  For
example, COMP 3804 is also listed as MATH 3804.  If you have a minor in
Mathematics with a degree in Computer Science, taking COMP 3804 will
fulfill a requirement for your major and a requirement for your minor.
The best way to know how any course will affect your degree is to add it
to your audit as a hypothetical course.

<h3>Below are some advanced-level tips to get even more out of your audit. </h3>

1) You can filter the main page of your audit by major, electives, or
minor. Just click the corresponding bar in the chart.  Go back to the main view by selecting “Audit” from the breadcrumb at the top of the screen.

2) The “View Course History” link at the top of your audit will show you a
new view that is just the courses you have taken at Carleton University and
their grades.  The chart at the top shows how many courses you took that
semester, and your CGPA.  You can filter your courses by semester by
clicking the corresponding bar in the chart or selecting the term from the
dropdown menu.

3) You can modify your hypothetical courses to take them in hypothetical
semesters and to assign hypothetical grades to them.  Hypothetical grades
will be included in your CGPA calculations, so it’s possible to see how a
grade will affect your CGPA and to set goals for your courses.  Click the
link on the hypothetical course code to open a window containing options.

4) If you have hypothetical courses, they will show up on the search page
for “Build Your Timetable”.  You can search all your hypothetical courses
by selecting them and pressing Enter, rather than searching each course
by it’s code one-by-one.

* * *

*Author: Lindsay Bangs, 4th year, Mobile Stream*
