<h1>The Hard Ones</h1>

  In this section I want to mention a few courses that are usually considered
difficult by students. This is by no means saying that you will have a hard time
with it but just that students in the past have had trouble with these courses.

<h2>COMP 1805, COMP 2804, COMP 3804, COMP 4804 - Discrete Structures Courses</h2>
  People usually have a lot of trouble with these courses because these courses
do not focus on programming. They're focused on algorithms and optimization of
algorithms. The subject matter of these courses is heavily theoretical and
forces you to think about problem solving in much more detail than any other
course required for your degree. The best advice to do well in these courses is
lots of practice and make sure you remember the lower year course when going
into the upper year equivalent (Make sure you understand all the material in
COMP 1805 and 2804 before you go for COMP 3804).

<h2>COMP 2401, COMP 2404 - Welcome to higher expectations</h2>
  These courses are considered difficult because the professors will no longer
hold your hand. They will only guide you in the right direction. This is when
most people start complaining about not being taught all the material that they
are expected to know. This will be the turning point in your degree where you
have to go out of your way to learn the programming language that you are using
for a course while the professor teaches theoretical Computer Science. The
advice I'll give to do better in these courses is to not expect spoonfeeding
and take initiative to learn what is required for the course. These courses will
only be hard if you rely on the lectures alone.

<h2>COMP 3004 - The Infamous One</h2>
  This course has a really bad reputation among Carleton Computer Science
students. It's been referred to as "The Death March" in the past. So what's
different about it. To put it plainly, there's a group project requirement and
the project is usually pretty big. So the advice I have to give for this course
is simple - Choose your group well and work as a group instead of as individuals.
This doesn't mean that you have to all sit together (Although that makes it
easier). It just means that all the planning should be done together. Good code
is like a cog that fits with a bunch of other code to make a machine but
everyone needs to agree on what the machine should do and how it should do it
otherwise you'll have a cog that doesn't fit.

* * *

*Authors: Eashan Singh, 4th year, Game Dev. Stream*
